Add user manual for the Frontend (#130)
MiSArch/docs: docs/docs/user-manuals/how-to-use-frontend.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import CustomImage from "@site/src/components/CustomImage";

# How to Use the Frontend

## Version to which this Document Refers

> To be precise, [this is the latest commit](https://github.com/MiSArch/frontend/commit/c7b74ec563058a66df03108ba27249450a00ce7e) of the Frontend version that was used when creating this document.

Reviewer: At best, point to a tag instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be precise, [v0.0.4](https://github.com/MiSArch/frontend/releases/tag/v0.0.4) is the latest version of the Frontend at the time of writing this document.
This guide might not completely apply to newer versions.
```

## Purpose of this Document

This document is mainly a step-by-step guide detailing how to **use** the Frontend. If you have just deployed the system and do not know where to start, this guide is for you. It tells you step by step how to manage the online store and how to use it.
Screenshots are provided in the final section of this document. Why? Because we recommend using this document alongside the actual frontend, side by side, when following the steps. We believe that inserting screenshots within the text would be distracting and unnecessarily bloat the document.

## Disclaimer

The Frontend is still in development and therefore this document refers to exactly one explicit version of the Frontend. It may happen that the document becomes outdated because the Frontend has advanced in the meantime. Ideally, with each new feature or bug fix, this document is updated accordingly.

## Where to Find the Frontend

> If we deploy the MiSArch system — the whole infrastructure — on our local machine we will find the Frontend at the following URL: http://localhost:4000.

Reviewer: Only on Docker.
K8s is undecided yet.
```suggestion
If we deploy the MiSArch system — the whole infrastructure — on our local machine using Docker, we will find the Frontend under <http://localhost:4000>.
```

## Step-by-step User Guide

> This section primarily describes step-by-step how to operate the Frontend so that each feature can be tried out. This is because some features are only available if you have exercised another feature in advance. For example, you have to have created a product before you can order it in the online store. Let's start with user management. This is where Keycloak comes into play. Once we know how to register a user and assign them permissions to manage the online store, we move on to managing the online store — how do we add products? How do we restock the products? How do we create tax rates? In the third subsection, we then use the frontend from the customer's perspective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section primarily describes step-by-step how to operate the Frontend so that each feature can be tried out. This is because some features are only available if you have executed something else previously.
For example, you must have created a product before you can order it in the online store.
Let's start with user management.
This is where Keycloak comes into play.
Once we know how to register a user and assign them permission to manage the online store, we move on to managing the online store — how do we add products? How do we restock the products? How do we create tax rates? In the third subsection, we then use the frontend from the customer's perspective.
```

> This section primarily describes step-by-step how to operate the Frontend so that each feature can be tried out. This is because some features are only available if you have exercised another feature in advance. For example, you have to have created a product before you can order it in the online store — logical. Let's start with user management. This is where Keycloak comes into play. Once we know how to register a user and assign them permissions to manage the online store, we move on to managing the online store — how do we add products? How do we restock the products? How do we create tax rates? In the third subsection, we then use the frontend from the customer's perspective.

Reviewer 2: The - logical bit seems a bit harsh to me :D

Author: Yeah, you're right. I'll remove it.

Author: 6dc8e40714a8e51b4574427e69363d7b3e865098

We note that some steps need to be taken before you can simply visit the online store to try out features from the customer's perspective. The three subsections represent the three superordinate roles that you can or even have to take on in the meantime when operating the frontend:

- Keycloak administrator
- Online store administrator
- Online store customer

### User Management

1. At the beginning, there are no users in the system. Consequently, when we navigate to the online store, we are not logged in as a user and in the top right corner it says "LOGIN".

> 2. Clicking on "LOGIN" will redirect us to Keycloak. Here we have two options: We could try to log in with an existing user via username and password — Spoiler: This is impossible because there are no users yet — or we register a new user. To do this, we click on the "Register" link at the bottom of the dialog.

Reviewer 2: To keep it a bit formal I would also replace `spoiler: This` with `- Which is imposssible ...`

Author: Consider it done.

Author: b089531e8e4a0f148157bf5aff2cf2c9434a2fcd

3. We fill out the registration form and submit it by pressing the "Register" button.
4. Keycloak redirects us or returns us to the online store. Now we are logged in.
5. By default, we only have the permissions of a customer. That means we still can't do anything because there are no products in the online store yet.
6. Therefore, we need to add additional permissions to our new user so that we can manage the online store. To do this, we navigate to Keycloak: http://localhost:4000/keycloak/

> 7. We click on "Administration Console" and log in with the username "admin" and password "admin".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. We click on "Administration Console" and log in with the username "admin" and password "admin" (or if we changed the password, use whatever has been configured).
```

> 7. We click on "Administration Console" and log in with the username "admin". The password is the same as the username.

Reviewer 2: username "admin", password "admin"

Author: 6a6a5d28f947cbe48f09b393b5b7428d723718e4

11. We click on the user or its username.
12. This takes us to the "User details".
13. We go to the "Role mapping" tab.
14. We click on the blue "Assign role" button. A dialog opens.
15. We check the "admin" and "employee" roles and confirm the dialog with "Assign".
16. Now the user has all available roles in the system, so the user can both administer the online store and shop in the online store.
17. We navigate back to the online store. We should still be logged in. The view has changed because now we are logged in not as a customer but as a store employee or administrator. If not, just reload the page.
18. Now the main menu is on the right instead of the left side, and it points to pages that allow store management.
19. Very important! If we wanted to change the current user role, we could do so. In the top right corner, there is a button labeled "SWITCH USER ROLE". Clicking on it opens a dialog.
20. In the dropdown, we can select one of the available roles. The selection takes effect immediately, and we must explicitly close the dialog by clicking "CANCEL".
21. Clicking "LOGOUT" logs out the currently logged-in user.

### Managing the Online Store

> To manage the online store, we need to log in with a user who has either the "admin" or "employee" role, or even both. In the previous section, we created such a user using Keycloak.

Reviewer: IIRC, I set it up so that `admin != employee`, so especially `admin > employee` is **not** true when it comes to permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage the online store, we need to log in with a user who has the `employee` role. In the previous section, we created such a user using Keycloak.
Preferably, our user should even have `admin` capabilities to manage further configurations.
```

2. If necessary, we need to switch the user role to either "admin" or "employee". See Step 19 in the previous section.
3. On the right side, you'll now find the menu. First, navigate to "Manage Tax Rates".
4. The page that now appears has a toolbar at the top. In the top right corner, you'll find a button labeled "ADD TAX RATE". Click on it.
5. A dialog will open. Now we can create a tax rate, with a name, description, and the percentage to be applied.
6. Click "SAVE" to request the creation of the tax rate.
7. Now the tax rate will also be listed on the "Manage Tax Rates" page.
8. Clicking on the tax rate will take us to a detailed view or to the page for the tax rate.
9. If the percentage of the tax rate ever changes, we can create a new version.
10. Click on the toolbar button "ADD TAX RATE VERSION".
11. A dialog opens with only one input field for the new percentage.
12. Saving the new input will directly update the page and thus also the version history of the current tax rate.
13. It's important to know that the system absolutely needs at least one tax rate in order to create a product.
14. Now navigate in the menu to "Manage Categories".

> 15. The page is structured analogously to the "Manage Tax Rates" page: In the top right corner, you'll find a toolbar button labeled "ADD CATEGORY". Click on it to open a dialog to create a new product category.

Reviewer 2: I would add a sentence, what we understand under categories and link to the docs page. A la We organise our products in categories, to  improve the shopping experience ...

Author: 1cd44ab54c9ea1d81a2068771be8071510ad4d6e

> 16. Categories are optional. That means they are not mandatory in order to create products. We decided to organize the online store's products into categories. A product can be part of multiple categories. For instance, a CD could be part of a category named "CDs" and at the same time be part of category named "Music". There are no relationships between categories. Each and every category stands for itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
16. Categories are optional. That means they are not mandatory in order to create products. We decided to organize the online store's products into categories. A product can be part of multiple categories. For instance, a CD could be part of a category named `CDs` and at the same time be part of category named `Music`. There are no relationships between categories. Each and every category stands for itself. In particular, we cannot nest categories such as saying `CDs` are a subcategory of `Music`
```

17. The dialog represents a form; we can give the category a name and a description.

> 18. On the right side of the dialog, you'll find an action button with a plus symbol. Clicking on it expands the dialog, allowing us to create as many so-called characteristics of this category as we want. We can select the type of characteristic and add the name and a description. Additionally, there's a possibility to remove a characteristic at the bottom left.

Reviewer 2: Same here.
"Product Catgories can have filterable characteristics. These can be categorical (i.e. color) or numerical (i.e.) RAM."
I mean we could assume that users read the docs before installing but who does that ;)

Author: 1cd44ab54c9ea1d81a2068771be8071510ad4d6e

#### Creating a Wishlist

1. To create a wishlist, we navigate to the "Wishlists" menu item.
2. In the top right corner, we find the "ADD WISHLIST" button. We click on it.
3. A dialog opens; here, we can only enter the name of our new wishlist.
4. We confirm the creation of the wishlist by clicking "SAVE".
5. The wishlist should now be listed.
6. When we click on the wishlist, we are taken to the wishlist page. As expected, it is empty because no product has been added yet.

#### Adding Something to a Wishlist

1. To do this, we navigate back to a product page.
2. Below the "ADD TO CART" button, we find the "ADD TO WISHLIST" button.
3. When we click on it, a dialog opens.
4. In said dialog, we can check the wishlists to which the product should be added.
5. Additionally, we could navigate to the wishlist overview page via "GO TO WISHLISTS" to create another wishlist.
6. We confirm the assignment of the wishlists by clicking "SAVE".
7. The product has been added to the wishlist. However, there is no green message displayed. If we wanted to make sure, we would need to navigate to the wishlists and check if the product is listed there.

> ## Known Issues and Bugs

Reviewer 2: I would remove this, since ideally there will be no known issues at the end of the project :worried: 
And the team know these issues from gropius anyway.

Author: I get that. However, these issues can be really annoying when using the Frontend and they sort of work against the steps as they are laid out in the guide. My intention was to sort of give the reader and user a heads up. Ideally then they would not be too surprised when encountering these issues. Long story short, I would like to keep it for now because I do not think that we will be able to fix all of these issues until the project's official end and I do not want to sweep anything under the carpet.
